
1. Decimal alignment differences between RTF and PDF.
By default RTF will not align comma (,) separated numbers with decimal alignment. For example
  99.9 and 10, 20 will be aligned as:
  99.9
 10, 20
 The alignment happens on space not on comma. This is due to the fact that Word interprets comma (,) as
 number grouping symbol (as in 10,000,000.00) 
 and thinks of it as part of the number (so the number is 10, and not just 10).
 This can be configured by changing Regional Settings in sindows control panel. 
 
 2. To print "\" the double slash "\\" has to be used.  This is done to allow future advance ability 
 to pass rtf commands directly. Currently passing rft is not fully supported. 
 
 Some of the known issues: Passing explicit rft commands will not work with dest=pdf and will result in incorrect column width calcuations (column widths need to be defined explicilty to use it).
 
3. Difference in number of rows between PDF and RTF documents.  Sasshiato will match number of rows between RTF and PDF 
if both are generated at the same time.  However, if PDF is generated on its own it can have 2 more lines per page
when compared with RTF output.  This happens when RTF is requested to place system headers/footers/and or system footers as part of the table.
This is a result of how Microsoft Word displays documents.  Microsoft Word will ingore page break unless page break is followed with a paragraph.
If System Header is places in table, the pagebreaks will not work properly unless an empty paragraph is inserted at the top of the new page.
This costs one line.  The other problem is that Microsoft Word will not accept document ending with a table row and will 
automatically append a paragraph with font size 12 at the end.  If system footer is placed as part of the table at the end
of the very bottom of the page (as expected) then Word will insert an empty page at the end of the document with the font size 12 paragraph.
To resolve this problem, sasshiato inserts an empty paragraph at the end of the document with the same font size as the one used to generate the table.
This costs the second line.

4. NH and LWH are not calcuated for spanning header rows

5. If calc option for rtf_linesplit is used. Non-hypenating RTF soft line breaking may not be exact with System Headers if _PAGE_ or _DATE_ is used.
This can be simply avoided by provinding adequate space in system header.
Sasshiato assumes that the system headers fit (do not require soft hypenation.

6. If calc option for rtf_linesplit is used. The non-hypenating breaks can also be off if special font symbol or superscript is used.
Especially long superscript text can affect the way RTF is layed out.
The negative impact should be rare, especially if superscripts are single character.  
The overall impact of soft line breaks is the formatting differences between PDF and RTF. 
RTF may end up with additional soft line breaks and even page spills. 
Use larger rtf_extlns to avoid page spills.

7. If hyphen option for rtf_linesplit is used the soft nonvisible hyphenation points are inserted 
in possible breaking points. This makes the Word presenation very close to our calcuations.
The sideeffect is that additional RTF symbology is inserted to hide inserted hyphenation and can 
possibly produce sideeffects if partial copy and paste to a different document is used.
In our testing we have not encountered such behavior.

8.Split char work with the /# syntax (where / is the ESCAPE char).

9. Combining RD and D aligment may not work the same in PDF and RTF.
The reason for it is that Microsoft Word aligns on certain characters such as "/" so
when printing percentages with denominators the division symbol "/" will align in RTF 
with the right most character in the first word alingned as RD.  
To resolve this problem use RD alignmnet when printing single statistics such as percent/denom.

10. With RTF output direction, if all columns are marked with no stretch, and system headers/footers/system footers
are placed in the table then the body rows appear not centered.
This is due to the fact that Microsoft Word ignores requests to center table rows if table rows have different
sizes and there are no paragraph breaks between the rows of different sizes.  
To achieve centered aligned RTF table rows which do not occupy whole page size headers/footers and system footers need to be 
placed in the document header/footer area (which is Sasshiato configuration).
With this configuration titles are placed automatically as paragraphs and all table consists of only body rows
which have the same size.

11. If the separator is requested above footnote as opposed to below table and there are no footnotes
or system footnotes then in RTF the separator is not shown (it is shown in PDF).

12. In-text reports produce separate tables for each value of varbygrp/varbylab.
Also separate tables are produced if columns do not fit on one page and vertical split 
has to happen.  In situaltions where both vertical splits and varbygrp are encountered
sparate tables are generated for both in the following order:
The first set of columns is printed for each of the varbylab groups, 
then the second set of columns is prited for all varbygroups, and so on. 
Current version of sasshiato does not allow to change this order. 

13. The use of _PAGE_ with in-text rtf tables when rtfpl_shead=t
yields incorrect results.  Typically in-text tables should use rtfpl_shead=n but 
rtfpl_shead=hf is also supported.


14. In sizing calculations like LH only last header record is used.


15. (2024/02/18) using special characters e.g. /#0041 before line break // may not work. 